Develop/gist-template.md, before:

# Title (replace with your title)

Introductory paragraph (replace this with your text)

## Summary

A regex, short for regular expression, is a string of characters that creates a particular search pattern. When used in programming or search functions, regex can help locate specific patterns within text or replace parts of the text. It's also commonly used to check if input follows the correct format.
Regex is a critical tool for developers because it allows for efficient text processing, data validation, and searching capabilities. Understanding regex can significantly enhance your ability to manipulate and work with strings in various programming contexts.

## Code snippet example :
^([a-z0-9_\.-]+)@([a-z0-9_\.-]+)\.([a-z\.]{2,6})$

Briefly summarize the regex you will be describing and what you will explain. Include a code snippet of the regex. Replace this text with your summary.

## Table of Contents

- [Anchors](#anchors)
- [Quantifiers](#quantifiers)
- [Grouping Constructs](#grouping-constructs)
- [Bracket Expressions](#bracket-expressions)
- [Character Classes](#character-classes)
- [The OR Operator](#the-or-operator)
- [Flags](#flags)
- [Character Escapes](#character-escapes)

## Regex Components
A regular expression (or regex) is a method for defining a pattern. It's used to find or verify specific text patterns within sentences, documents, or any other type of character input.

Regex combines both basic and special characters. Basic characters include standard letters, numbers, and common keyboard symbols, while anything else is treated as a special character

### Anchors
Anchors in regex are special characters used to specify positions within a string, rather than matching actual characters. They help define where a pattern should be located in the text. 

The two most common anchors are:
    Caret (^): This anchor asserts the position at the start of a line or string. For example, the regex ^Hello will match any string that begins with "Hello".

    Dollar Sign ($): This anchor asserts the position at the end of a line or string. For example, the regex world$ will match any string that ends with "world".
### Quantifiers

### Grouping Constructs

### Bracket Expressions

### Character Classes

### The OR Operator

### Flags

### Character Escapes

## Author

A short section about the author with a link to the author's GitHub profile (replace with your information and a link to your profile)
## Credit 
https://www.liquidweb.com/blog/what-are-regular-expressions/#:~:text=A%20regular%20expression%20(also%20called,both%20basic%20and%20special%20characters.

Commit message:

added intro with quantifiers,grouping constructs and bracket expressions

Develop/gist-template.md, after:

# Mustafa's Regex Tutorial 

Regex is a critical tool for developers because it allows for efficient text processing, data validation, and searching capabilities. Understanding regex can significantly enhance your ability to manipulate and work with strings in various programming contexts.

## Summary

A regex, short for regular expression, is a string of characters that creates a particular search pattern. When used in programming or search functions, regex can help locate specific patterns within text or replace parts of the text. It's also commonly used to check if input follows the correct format.

## Code snippet example :
^([a-z0-9_\.-]+)@([a-z0-9_\.-]+)\.([a-z\.]{2,6})$

Briefly summarize the regex you will be describing and what you will explain. Include a code snippet of the regex. Replace this text with your summary.

## Table of Contents

- [Anchors](#anchors)
- [Quantifiers](#quantifiers)
- [Grouping Constructs](#grouping-constructs)
- [Bracket Expressions](#bracket-expressions)
- [Character Classes](#character-classes)
- [The OR Operator](#the-or-operator)
- [Flags](#flags)
- [Character Escapes](#character-escapes)

## Regex Components
A regular expression (or regex) is a method for defining a pattern. It's used to find or verify specific text patterns within sentences, documents, or any other type of character input.

Regex combines both basic and special characters. Basic characters include standard letters, numbers, and common keyboard symbols, while anything else is treated as a special character

### Anchors

Anchors in regex are special characters used to specify positions within a string, rather than matching actual characters. They help define where a pattern should be located in the text. 

The two most common anchors are:
    Caret (^): This anchor asserts the position at the start of a line or string. For example, the regex ^Hello will match any string that begins with "Hello".

    Dollar Sign ($): This anchor asserts the position at the end of a line or string. For example, the regex world$ will match any string that ends with "world".

### Quantifiers

Quantifiers in regex are symbols that specify how many times a particular character, group of characters, or character class should appear in the text for a match to occur. They allow you to define the quantity of matches you're looking for, making your pattern more flexible. One common quantifier is an asterisk (*).

### Grouping Constructs

Grouping constructs in regex are used to group multiple characters, expressions, or patterns together, allowing them to be treated as a single unit. This is particularly useful when you want to apply quantifiers to a group of characters, capture specific parts of a match for later use, or organize complex regex patterns
### Bracket Expressions

Bracket expressions, also known as character classes, are a way to define a set of characters within square brackets [] that you want to match in a regex pattern. When a bracket expression is used, the regex engine will match any one character from the set of characters defined within the brackets.

### Character Classes

### The OR Operator

### Flags

### Character Escapes

## Author

A short section about the author with a link to the author's GitHub profile (replace with your information and a link to your profile)
## Credit 
https://www.liquidweb.com/blog/what-are-regular-expressions/#:~:text=A%20regular%20expression%20(also%20called,both%20basic%20and%20special%20characters.
